1.DEFINE AND EXPLAIN THE THREE BASIC TYPES OF CLOUD SERVICES AND THE AWS PRODUCTS THAT ARE BUILT BASED ON THEM?
THE THREE BASIC TYPES OF CLOUD SERVICES ARE:

1.COMPUTING ---> There are three main service models of cloud computing – 
                 Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), 
				 Platform as a Service (PaaS) and 
				 Software as a Service (SaaS).
2.STORAGE    
3.NETWORKING

IaaS (Infrastructure as Service):

This is the most common service model of cloud computing as it offers the fundamental infrastructure of virtual servers, 
network, operating systems and data storage drives. It allows for the flexibility, reliability and scalability that 
many businesses seek with the cloud, and removes the need for hardware in the office. This makes it ideal for small and 
medium sized organisations looking for a cost-effective IT solution to support business growth. 
IaaS is a fully outsourced pay-for-use service and is available as a public, private or hybrid infrastructure.

PaaS (Platform-as-a-Service): 

This is where cloud computing providers deploy the infrastructure and software framework, but businesses can develop 
and run their own applications. Web applications can be created quickly and easily via PaaS, and the service is flexible 
and robust enough to support them. PaaS solutions are scalable and ideal for business environments where multiple developers 
are working on a single project. It is also handy for situations where an existing data source (such as CRM tool) needs to be leveraged.

SaaS (Software as a Service):

This cloud computing solution involves the deployment of software over the internet to various businesses who pay via subscription or 
a pay-per-use model. It is a valuable tool for CRM and for applications that need a lot of web or mobile access – 
such as mobile sales management software. SaaS is managed from a central location so businesses 
don’t have to worry about maintaining it themselves, and is ideal for short-term projects.

HERE ARE SOME OF THE AWS PRODUCTS THAT ARE BUILT BASED ON THE THREE CLOUD SERVICE TYPES:

COMPUTING - These include ec2, elastic beanstalk, lambda, auto-scaling, and lightsat.
STORAGE - These include S3, Glacier, Elastic block storage (EBS), Elastic file system (EFS).
NETWORKING - These include VPC, Amazon cloudfront, Route53.

2.what is auto-scaling?:
	
Auto-scaling is a function that allows you to provision and launch new instances whenever there is a demand. 
it allows you to automatically increase or decrease resource capacity in relation to the demand.

3.what is geo-targeting in cloudfront?:

Geo-targeting is a concept where businesses can show personalized content to their audience based on their geographic location without 
changing the url. this helps you create customized content for the audience of a specific geographical area, keeping their needs in the forefront.

4. CAN YOU HOST DYNAMIC WEBSITES ON S3?. WHAT ABOUT STATIC WEBSITES?:

you can use s3 to host static websites such as . html websites, dynamic websites cannot be hosted on s3."

WHAT IS CONTINUOUS INTEGRATION?:

IN CONTINUOUS INTEGRATION after a code commit, the software is built and tested immediately. 
In a large project with many developers, commits are made many times during a day. with each commit code is built and tested. 
if the test is passed, build is tested for deployment. if deployment is a success, the code is pushed to production. 
this commit, build, test, and deploy is a continuous process and hence the name continuous integration/deployment.

BOTH ENTRYPOINT AND CMD allow you to specify the startup command for an image.
how to use entrypoint or cmd to specify your image's default executable. however, 
there are some cases where it makes sense to use entrypoint and cmd together.
What is the difference between CMD and ENTRYPOINT? You cannot override the 
ENTRYPOINT instruction by adding command-line parameters to the docker run command.

GIT:
Git is the most commonly used version control system. Git tracks the changes you make to files, 
so you have a record of what has been done, and you can revert to specific versions should you ever need to. 
Git also makes collaboration easier, allowing changes by multiple people to all be merged into one source.

DOCKERFILE:

ADD: copies the files from a source on the host into the container’s own filesystem at the set destination.
COPY: same as ADD copies the files from a source on the host into the container’s own filesystem at the set destination.
CMD :can be used for executing a specific command within the container.
CMD :is an instruction that is best to use if you need a default command which users can easily override. 
If a Dockerfile has multiple CMDs, it only applies the instructions from the last one.
ENTRYPOINT: sets a default application to be used every time a container is created with the image.
            ENTRYPOINT is preferred when you want to define a container with a specific executable.
ENV: sets environment variables.
EXPOSE: associates a specific port to enable networking between the container and the outside world.
FROM: defines the base image used to start the build process.
MAINTAINER: defines a full name and email address of the image creator.
RUN: is the central executing directive for Dockerfiles.
USER: sets the UID (or username) which is to run the container.
VOLUME: is used to enable access from the container to a directory on the host machine.
WORKDIR: sets the path where the command, defined with CMD, is to be executed.
LABEL: allows you to add a label to your docker image.

Difference between CMD and RUN:
RUN and CMD are both Dockerfile instructions. RUN lets you execute commands inside of your Docker image. 
These commands get executed once at build time and get written into your Docker image as a new layer. ... 
CMD lets you define a default command to run when your container starts.

Difference between ADD and COPY are:
ADD can also copy files from a URL. It can download an external file and copy it to the wanted destination.
COPY can be used only for locally stored files. Therefore, you cannot use it with URLs to copy external files to your container.

Source command for update environmental variables:
source ~/.bash_profile
source /etc/profile

yum list available java\*  ---> to show multiple java versions and install java. 

alternatives --config java  ---> to select which java version is used to your application.

chmod -R 755 /opt/lampp/htdocs ---> if you want to change permissions of all files and directories at once.

HOW TO FREE UP PORT USE COMMAND:
netstat -lnp | grep 1025(port)
kill 1025 --> kill process
vi editor to replace string:
:%s/old-one/new-one/g
Find and kill a process:
ps -eaf | grep /usr/sbin/httpd(process name) | grep -v grep | awk '{print $2}' | xargs kill

To run script background and do other work:
nohup sh custom-script.sh > custom-out.log 