 S3 ENCRYPTION TYPES:
1. Rest encryption (Server Side Encryption (SSE))
2. Client-side encryption
3. transit encryption

Status checks for your instances:
1.System status checks
System status checks monitor the AWS systems on which your instance runs. 
These checks detect underlying problems with your instance that require AWS involvement to repair. 
When a system status check fails, you can choose to wait for AWS to fix the issue, or you can resolve it yourself. 
For instances backed by Amazon EBS, you can stop and start the instance yourself, which in most cases results in the 
instance being migrated to a new host. For instances backed by instance store, you can terminate and replace the instance.
The following are examples of problems that can cause system status checks to fail:
Loss of network connectivity
Loss of system power
Software issues on the physical host
Hardware issues on the physical host that impact network reachability
2.Instance status checks
Instance status checks monitor the software and network configuration of your individual instance. 
Amazon EC2 checks the health of the instance by sending an address resolution protocol (ARP) request to the network interface (NIC). 
These checks detect problems that require your involvement to repair. When an instance status check fails, you typically must 
address the problem yourself (for example, by rebooting the instance or by making instance configuration changes).
The following are examples of problems that can cause instance status checks to fail:
Failed system status checks
Incorrect networking or startup configuration
Exhausted memory
Corrupted file system

Incompatible kernel
•	SIMPLE ROUTING POLICY: Use for a single resource that perfoms a given function for your domain, 
    for example, a web server that serves content for the example.com website.
•	FAILOVER ROUTING POLICY: Use when you want to configure active-passive failover.
•	GEOLOCATION ROUTING POLICY: Use when you want to route traffic based on the location of your users.
•	GEOPROXIMITY ROUTING POLICY: Use when you want to route traffic based on the location of your resources and, 
    optionally, shift traffic from resources in one location to resources in another.
•	LATENCY ROUTING POLICY: Use when you have resources in multiple AWS Regions and you want 
    to route traffic to the region that provides the best latency.
•	MULTIVALUE ANSWER ROUTING POLICY: Use when you want Route53 to respond to DNS queries 
    with up to eight healthy records selected at random.
•	WEIGHTED ROUTING POLICY: Use to route traffic to miultiple resources in proportions that you specify.


GIT Branching strategy:
master branch - stable (production code)
development branch - pre production code
feature branch - 
release branch - preperation of new production release
hot fix - patch production releases
 
 DOCKER VERSION: -19.03.3 (2019-10-07)
 JENKINS VERSION: - 3.1.0 (2019-01-21)
 ANSIBLE VERSION: - 2.5 (2.5.1 TO 2.5.15)
 GIT VERSION: - 2.16	2018-01-17	2.16.6	2019-12-07
 MAVEN VERSION: - 3.6.2 (2019-08-27)
 APACHE TOMCAT VERSION: - 8.5.61 (8.5.X)
 APACHE (HTTPD): - 2.4.39 (APRIL 2019)
 NGINX VERSION: - 1.15.8 (2018-12-25)
 SONARQUBE VERSION: - 7.9.x LTS (July 2019)
 NEXUS VERSION: - 3.15.2
 NAGIOS VERSION: - 4.4.3 – (2019-01-15)
 KUBERNETES: - 1.18 - 25 March 2020
 TERRAFORM: - 0.14.9
NGINX: - It accelerates content and application delivery, improves security, 
facilitates availability and scalability for the busiest web sites on the Internet.
The NGINX source code is written in the C programming language.
Declarative pipeline:
The Declarative pipeline is a new feature that is added to create the pipeline. 
This is basically written in a Jenkinsfile which can be stored into a source code management system such as Git. 
Declarative pipelines is an ideal solution for the simple continuous delivery pipeline as it has very limited and pre-defined structure.

Scripted pipeline:
The scripted pipeline is a traditional way of writing the Jenkins pipeline as code. 
Ideally, a Scripted pipeline is written in the Jenkins file on the web UI of Jenkins. 
Unlike the Declarative pipeline, the scripted pipeline strictly uses groovy based syntax. 
Since this, The scripted pipeline provides huge control over the script and can manipulate the flow of the script extensively. 
This helps developers to develop advance and complex pipelines as code.

Difference between freestyle and maven project in jenkins:
A Free-Style project is a project that can incorporate almost any type of build. While a maven project you can only build maven projects, 
the Free-Style project is the more "generic" form of a project.
Mysql:

mysql -h <end point> -P 3306 -u username -p password

mysql -h mysql2018.cni7sprher5s.us-east-2.rds.amazonaws.com -P 3306 -u mysql2018 -p mysql2018

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS books (
    book_id INT AUTO_INCREMENT,
    title VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    author VARCHAR(255),
    publish_date DATE,
    description TEXT,
    PRIMARY KEY (book_id)
) ENGINE=INNODB;

What is the maximum amount of IAM users allowable per account?:
5000 per AWS account
how many s3 buckets per account?:
you can create up to 100 buckets in each of your AWS accounts.
What is the maximum storage limit per S3 buckets?:
Individual Amazon S3 objects can range in size from a minimum of 0 bytes to a maximum of 5 terabytes(5TB).
The largest object that can be uploaded in a single PUT is 5 gigabytes. For objects larger than 100 megabytes, 
customers should consider using the Multipart Upload capability. There is no limit on objects per bucket.
Can S3 host dynamic website?:
You can use Amazon S3 to host a static website. ... By contrast, a dynamic website relies on server-side processing, 
including server-side scripts such as PHP, JSP, or ASP.NET. Amazon S3 does not support server-side scripting, 
but AWS has other resources for hosting dynamic websites.
What is the port 53?:
DNS uses Port 53 which is nearly always open on systems, firewalls, and clients to transmit DNS queries. 
Rather than the more familiar Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) these queries use User Datagram Protocol (UDP) 
because of its low-latency, bandwidth and resource usage compared TCP-equivalent queries.