Current Project 
Name: sales information system
Client: Wintel Software’s, USA 
car rental service
 
The software offers lots of useful features where you can find car rental tracking, driver management, 
location mapping, billing & invoicing, fines management, inventory management, and many more features 
for your car rental business. Drivers and passengers can easily communicate through this software. 
The driver can locate the customers and the customer can locate the driver’s position. The software 
also offers real-time reporting feature where you can track your business activities. You can easily 
track your car status through this software so if you are using this software, there is not an issue 
of vehicle theft.

PAYTM INTERVIEW QUESTIONS

1)Difference between daemonset and deployment?:
3 different resources that Kubernetes provides for deploying pods.
1.Deployments
2.StatefulSets
3.DaemonSets
Deployments:
Kubernetes deployments manage stateless services running on your cluster (as opposed to for example StatefulSets which do manage stateful 
services). Their purpose is to keep a set of identical pods running and upgrade them in a controlled way. For example, you define how many 
replicas(pods) you want to run of your app in deployment definition and kubernetes will make that many replicas of your application spread 
over nodes. If you say 5 replica's over 3 node then some nodes have more than one replica of your app running.
DaemonSets:
DaemonSets manage groups of replicated Pods. However, DaemonSets attempt to adhere to a one-Pod-per-node model, either across the entire 
cluster or a subset of nodes. Daemonset will not run more than one replica per node. Another advantage of using Daemonset is, If you add 
a node to the cluster then Daemonset will automatically spawn pod on that node, which deployment will not do.
DaemonSets are useful for deploying ongoing background tasks that you need to run on all or certain nodes, and which do not require user 
intervention. Examples of such tasks include storage daemons like ceph, log collection daemons like fluentd, and node monitoring daemons 
like collectd.

2)How to set environment variables in a Jenkins Scripted Pipeline?:
Jenkinsfile (Scripted Pipeline)

  node {
      withEnv(['DISABLE_AUTH=true',
               'DB_ENGINE=sqlite']) {
          stage('Build') {
              sh 'printenv'
          }
      }
  }
Your script should look something like the following:

  node('my-label') {
      withEnv(['value=World']) {
           stage('Test') {
               sh 'echo Hello, ${value}'
           }
      }
  }
3)How to use parameters in a Jenkins Scripted Pipeline?:
node {
  properties(
    [
        parameters(
            [string(defaultValue: '/data', name: 'Directory'),
             string(defaultValue: 'Dev', name: 'DEPLOY_ENV')]
            )

    ]
    )    

  ....
} 
4)How to clone git repository using jenkins scripted pipeline?:
node {
    stage ('checkout') {
        git url: 'git@github.devops.mycompany.local:Org/MyLargeRepo.git'
    }
} 
5)jenkins master slave config to run scripted pipeline job on node how to do it?:
Scripted pipeline:
node (label: 'slave') {
    ...
}
6)Difference between nacl and security group?:
The difference between Security Group and ACLs is that, Security Group act as a firewall for associated Amazon EC2 instances, 
controlling both inbound and outbound traffic at the instance level, while ACLs act as a firewall for associated subnets, 
controlling both inbound and outbound traffic at the subnet level.
What is a Security Group?:
It adds a security layer to EC2 instances that control both inbound and outbound traffic at the instance level.
It supports only allow rules, and by default, all the rules are denied. You cannot deny the rule for establishing a connection.
It is a stateful means that any changes made in the inbound rule will be automatically reflected in the outbound rule. For example, 
If you are allowing an incoming port 80, then you also have to add the outbound rule explicitly.
It is associated with an EC2 instance.
Maximum number of rules that can exist per Security Group: 50
Maximum number of Security Groups that can exist per instance: 5
Maximum number of rules that can exist per instance: 5*50 + 20 = 270
What is NACL?:
NACL also adds an additional layer of security associated with subnets that control both inbound and outbound traffic at the subnet level.
It supports both allow and deny rules, and by default, all the rules are denied. You need to add the rule which you can either 
allow or deny it.
It is a stateless means that any changes made in the inbound rule will not reflect the outbound rule, i.e., you need to add the 
outbound rule separately. For example, if you add an inbound rule port number 80, then you also have to explicitly add the outbound rule.
It is associated with a subnet.
Maximum number of rules that exist per NACL: 2
7)what is deamon set?:
A DaemonSet is a controller that ensures that the pod runs on all the nodes of the cluster. If a node is added/removed from a cluster, 
DaemonSet automatically adds/deletes the pod.
a DaemonSet manages groups of replicated Pods. However, DaemonSets attempt to adhere to a one-Pod-per-node model, 
either across the entire cluster or a subset of nodes.
8)Difference between ingress and services in kubernetes?:
What is Ingress? :
Ingress exposes HTTP and HTTPS routes from outside the cluster to services within the cluster. Traffic routing is controlled by 
rules defined on the Ingress resource.
what is service?:
An abstract way to expose an application running on a set of Pods as a network service.
With Kubernetes you don't need to modify your application to use an unfamiliar service discovery mechanism. Kubernetes gives Pods 
their own IP addresses and a single DNS name for a set of Pods, and can load-balance across them.

jenkins scripted pipeline
  env varibles
  parameters
  git clone repo
jenkins master slave config to run scripted pipeline job on node how to do it?  
kubernetes workload
difference between ingress and services
what is deamon set
difference between deamon set and deployment?
aws load balancer 3 applications running on 3 servers one server get cpu utilization high how to debug that issue?
difference between nacl and security group?
if a ip hit continuously so we need to block that ip how it will do?



1)Difference between EFS and EBS?:
Amazon EBS:
Every server needs a drive. EBS is essentially a cloud-based storage for the drives of your virtual machines. EBS is designed to 
store data in blocks attached to an Amazon EC2 instance, similar to a local disk drive on your physical machine. You need to mount 
EBS onto an Amazon EC2 instance.
Amazon EFS:
EFS is on the other hand automatically scalable — this means that you need not to be worried about your running applications as there 
won’t be any problems even if the workload suddenly becomes higher — the storage will automatically scale itself. Now, if the workload 
decreases — the storage will itself scale down, so that you don’t pay anything for the part of storage that you don’t use.
Key differences:
Storage Type:
EBS: Block Storage.
EFS: Object storage.
Performance:
EBS: Hardly scalable.
• Manually scale the size of the volumes without stopping instance.
• Baseline performance of 3 IOPS per GB for General Purpose volume.
• Use Provisioned IOPS for increased performance.
EFS: Scalable.
• Highly Scalable Managed Service.
• Supports up to 7000 file system operations per second.
Data Stored:
EBS:
• Data stored stays in the same Availability zone.
• Replicas are made within the AZ for higher durability.
EFS:
• Data stored in AWS EFS stays in the region.
• Replicas are made within the region.
Data Access:
EBS: Can only be accessed by a single Amazon EC2 instance.
EFS: Can be accessed by 1 to 1000s of EC2 instances from multiple AZs, concurrently.
Storage Size:
EBS: Maximum storage size of 16 TB.
EFS: No limitation on the size of the file system.

2)Difference between IAM user and IAM Role?:
An IAM user has permanent long-term credentials and is used to directly interact with AWS services. 
whereas IAM users refers to each user having a separate account within the root account. User is allowed to 
access a particular service of AWS root account based on the policies(permissions) it carries or based on the 
groups to which it is a member of.
IAM roles can be applied to AWS entities such as S3, EC2, etc. where in entities can communicate between 
each other without the need of additional credentials.
3)How to copy jenkins jobs one server to another?:  
Job import plugin can be used to copy jobs from other jenkins instance.
https://plugins.jenkins.io/job-import-plugin/
4) What are Parameters in Jenkins?:
Answer: Parameters are supported by the Agent section and are used to support various use-cases pipelines. 
Parameters are defined at the top-level of the pipeline or inside an individual stage directive.
5)what is Docker?:
Docker is a tool designed to make it easier to create, deploy, and run applications by using containers. Containers 
allow a developer to package up an application with all of the parts it needs, such as libraries and other dependencies, 
and deploy it as one package.
6)Difference between Amazon RDS, DynamoDB and Redshift?:
RDS is meant for structured data only. DynamoDB is meant for unstructured data which is a NoSQL service. 
Redshift is a data warehouse product used for data analysis.
7)What is CloudFront?:
Ans: Amazon CloudFront is a service that speeds up transfer of your static and dynamic web content such as HTML files, IMAGE files., etc., 
CloudFront delivers your particulars thru worldwide data centers named Edge Locations.
8)What is a Hypervisor?:
A Hypervisor is a kind of software that enables Virtualization. It combines physical hardware resources into a platform which is delivered 
virtually to one or more users. XEN is the Hypervisor for EC2.
9)What is the feature of ClassicLink?:
Ans: ClassicLink allows instances in EC2 classic platform to communicate with instances in VPC using Private IP address. EC2 classic 
platform instances cannot not be linked to more than one VPC at a time.
10)What is the use of Connection Draining?:
Ans: Connection Draining is a service under Elastic Load Balancing. It keeps monitoring the healthiness of the instances. If any instance 
fails Connection Draining pulls all the traffic from that particular failed instance and re-route the traffic to other healthy instances.
11)how many types of inventory files in ansible?:
In Ansible, there are two types of inventory files: Static and Dynamic. Let's have a look at each one of these and see how we can manage 
them. By now, we assume that you have already installed Ansible on your Control node, and configured Passwordless SSH connection to your 
managed hosts.
Static Host Inventory File:In Ansible, a static inventory file is a plain text file that contains a list of managed hosts declared 
under a host group using either hostnames or IP addresses.
Dynamic Host Inventory File:A dynamic inventory is a script written in Python, PHP or any other programming language. It comes in 
handy in cloud environments such as AWS where IP addresses change once a virtual server is stopped and started again.

12) What are kubernetes pods?:
Pods in Kubernetes are the smallest and most basic deployable objects. A Pod represents a single instance of a running process in your 
cluster. It can contain one or more containers.
13)What are Daemon sets?:
A DaemonSet ensures that Nodes run a copy of a Pod i.e. if nodes are added then a new pod is created and if nodes are removed then 
those Pods are collected in the garbage.
14)What is the LoadBalancer in Kubernetes?:
A load balancer performs the distribution of network traffic across multiple servers to optimize performance and ensure the reliability 
of an application.
15)What are the types in cloudwatch?:
There are 2 types in cloudwatch. Basic monitoring and detailed monitoring. Basic monitoring is free and detailed monitoring is chargeable.
Differentiate Basic and Detailed monitoring in cloud watch?:
Basic Monitoring:Basic monitoring sends data points to Amazon cloud watch every five minutes for a limited number of preselected metrics at no charge.
Detailed Monitoring: Detailed monitoring sends data points to amazon CloudWatch every minute and allows data aggregation for an additional charge. 
16)What are the cloudwatch metrics that are available for EC2 instances?:
Diskreads, Diskwrites, CPU utilization, networkpacketsIn, networkpacketsOut, networkIn, networkOut, CPUCreditUsage, CPUCreditBalance.
17)What are the different storage classes in S3?:
Following are the types of storage classes in S3,

1.Standard frequently accessed
2.Standard infrequently accessed
3.One-zone infrequently accessed.
4.s3-Glacier
5.RRS – reduced redundancy storage
18)What is glacier?:
Glacier is the back up or archival tool that you use to back up your data in S3.
19)How can you secure the access to your S3 bucket?:
There are two ways that you can control the access to your S3 buckets,

1.ACL – Access Control List
2.Bucket polices
20)How can you encrypt data in S3?:
You can encrypt the data by using the below methods,

1.Server Side Encryption – S3 (AES 256 encryption)
2.Server Side Encryption – KMS (Key management Service)
3.Server Side Encryption – C (Client Side)
21) What are the parameters for S3 pricing?:
The pricing model for S3 is as below,

1.Storage used
2.Number of requests you make
3.Storage management
4.Data transfer
5.Transfer acceleration
22)What is the pre-requisite to work with Cross region replication in S3?:
You need to enable versioning on both source bucket and destination to work with cross region replication. 
Also both the source and destination bucket should be in different region.
23)What are AWS IAM roles?:
Roles are used to provide permissions to entities that you trust within your AWS account. Roles are users in another account. 
Roles are similar to users but with roles you do not need to create any username and password to work with the resources.
24)What is the maximum individual archive that you can store in glacier?:
You can store a maximum individual archive of upto 40 TB.
25)What is VPC?:
VPC stands for Virtual Private Cloud. VPC allows you to easily customize your networking configuration. 
VPC is a network that is logically isolated from other network in the cloud. It allows you to have your own IP address range,
subnets, internet gateways, NAT gateways and security groups.
26)What is VPC peering connection?:
VPC peering connection allows you to connect 1 VPC with another VPC. Instances in these VPC behave as if they are in the same network.
27)What are the different types of storage gateway?:
Following are the types of storage gateway.

1.File gateway
2.Volume gateway
3.Tape gateway
28) What are the types of routing polices in route53?:
Following are the types of routing policies in route53,

1.Simple routing
2.Latency routing
3.Failover routing
4.Geolocation routing
5.Weighted routing
6.Multivalue answer
29)What is the maximum size of messages in SQS?:
The maximum size of messages in SQS is 256 KB.
30) What is ELB?:
ELB stands for Elastic Load balancing. ELB automatically distributes the incoming application traffic or network traffic 
across multiple targets like EC2, containers, IP addresses.
31)What is the difference between the classic load balancer and application load balancer?:
Dynamic port mapping, multiple port multiple listeners is used in Application Load Balancer, One port one listener is achieved 
via Classic Load Balancer.
32)What is meant by subnet?:
 A large section of IP Address divided in to chunks are known as subnets.
33)Explain Cloud Service Models?:
SAAS (Software as a Service): It is software distribution model in which application are hosted by a vendor over the internet 
for the end user freeing from complex software and hardware management. 
(Ex: Google drive, drop box)
PAAS (Platform as a Service): It provides platform and environment to allow developers to build applications. 
It frees developers without going into the complexity of building and maintaining the infrastructure. 
(Ex: AWS Elastic Beanstalk, Windows Azure)
IAAS (Infrastructure as a Service): It provides virtualized computing resources over the internet like 
cpu, memory, switches, routers, firewall, Dns, Load balancer 
(Ex: Azure, AWS)
34)What is the way to access shell environment variables in Ansible?:
In Ansible, if you want to access existing variables, the user needs to use the ‘env’ lookup plugin. Example, 
to access the value of the Office environment on the management machine.
You need to write following code:
---
# ...
vars:
local_home: "{{ lookup('env','Office') }}"
I
{{ ansible_env.SOME_VARIABLE }}
35)Explain how you can copy file recursively onto a target host?:
The "copy" module has a recursive parameter. However, if you want this to perform more efficient for a large number of files, 
then “synchronize” module is the best option for you.
36)What is stateful and stateless in Kubernetes?:
A stateless application is one which depends on no persistent storage. ... A stateful application, on the other hand, has 
several other parameters it is supposed to look after in the cluster. There are dynamic databases which, even when the app 
is offline or deleted, persist on the disk.
37)Explain what an ask_pass module is?:
It’s a playbook control module used to control a password prompt. It’s set to True by default.
38)How do you keep data secret in a playbook?:
If you want to keep secret data but still be able to share it publicly, then use Vault in playbooks. 
But if you’re using –v (verbose) mode and don’t want anyone to see the results, then use.

name: secret task

shell: /usr/bin/do_something --value={{ secret_value }}

no_log: True

Ansible copy multiple files at once:
- name: copy rundeck files
copy: src=/project/devops/{{ item }} dest=/etc/rundeck/
with_items:
- rundeck.conf
- rundeck.properties
- rundeck.key

Ansible copy multiple files to multiple destinations:
- name: ansible copy multiple files
copy: src={{ item.src }} dest={{ item.dest }}
with_items:
- { src: '/project/jboss.conf', dest: '/etc/jboss' }
- { src: '/project/rundeck.conf', dest: '/etc/rundeck' }
- { src: '/project/httpd.conf', dest: '/etc/httpd' }

39)What is IaaS?:
Answer:IaaS is a cloud service that runs services on “pay-for-what-you-use” basis
IaaS workers include Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure and Google Compute Engine
Users: IT Administrators

40) What is PaaS?:
Answer:PaaS runs cloud platforms and runtime environments to develop, test and manage software
Users: Software Developers

41) What is SaaS?:
Answer:In SaaS, cloud workers host and manage the software application on a pay-as-you-go pricing model
Users: End Customers
42)jenkins pipeline using sonarqube?:
stage('SonarCloud') {
  environment {
    SCANNER_HOME = tool 'SonarQubeScanner'
    ORGANIZATION = "igorstojanovski-github"
    PROJECT_NAME = "igorstojanovski_jenkins-pipeline-as-code"
  }
  steps {
    withSonarQubeEnv('SonarCloudOne') {
        sh '''$SCANNER_HOME/bin/sonar-scanner -Dsonar.organization=$ORGANIZATION \
        -Dsonar.java.binaries=build/classes/java/ \
        -Dsonar.projectKey=$PROJECT_NAME \
        -Dsonar.sources=.'''
    }
  }
}

You can also add a quality gate stage that will fail the build if results were under a defined threshold. 
This would need to be placed after the last stage that utilizes the sonar-scanner.

stage("Quality Gate") {
  steps {
    timeout(time: 1, unit: 'MINUTES') {
        waitForQualityGate abortPipeline: true
    }
  }
}
43)Difference between if and case statements?:
if condition:
    do option 1
else:
    do option 2
 -------------------------------   
select ch:48)
    case 'a','e','i','o','u':
        print "is a vowel"
    case 'y':
        print "never quite sure"
    default:
        print "is a consonant"    
44)What is sticky session ELB in AWS?:
However, you can use the sticky session feature (also known as session affinity), which enables the load balancer to bind a 
user's session to a specific instance. ... This ensures that all requests from the user during the session are sent to the same instance.
45)what is quorum in kubernetes?:
so quorum (master node majority) can be maintained should one or more masters fail. In the HA scenario, Kubernetes will maintain 
a copy of the etcd databases on each master, but hold elections for the control plane function leaders kube-controller-manager 
and kube-scheduler to avoid conflicts.  
46)What is target group in load balancer?:
A target group tells a load balancer where to direct traffic to : EC2 instances, fixed IP addresses; or AWS Lambda functions, amongst others. 
When creating a load balancer, you create one or more listeners and configure listener rules to direct the traffic to one target group.
47)what is the use of docker host?:
DockerHost:The Docker host provides a complete environment to execute and run applications. 
It comprises of the Docker daemon, Images, Containers, Networks, and Storage. 
48)What is meant by version control system?:
Version control systems are software tools that help software teams manage changes to source code over time. ... 
Version control software keeps track of every modification to the code in a special kind of database.   
49)How to copy multiple files in one layer using a Dockerfile?:
COPY README.md package.json gulpfile.js __BUILD_NUMBER ./
or 
COPY dir1/* dir2/* ./
50)What is a POM XML file why it is used?:
xml file. POM is an acronym for Project Object Model. The pom. xml file contains information of project and configuration information 
for the maven to build the project such as dependencies, build directory, source directory, test source directory, plugin, goals etc.
51)What is artifact in Maven project?:
Artifact: An artifact is something that is either produced or used by a project. Examples of artifacts produced by Maven for a 
project include: JARs, source and binary distributions, WARs.
An artifact is a file, usually a JAR, that gets deployed to a Maven repository. A Maven build produces one or more artifacts, 
such as a compiled JAR and a "sources" JAR. Each artifact has a group ID.
52)What is difference between groupId and artifactId in Maven?:
The main difference between groupId and artifactId in Maven is that the groupId specifies the id of the project group while the 
artifactId specifies the id of the project. It is required to use third party libraries when developing a project.
53)what is LABEL in Dockerfile?:
A label is a key-value pair, stored as a string.
Labels are used in Dockerfile to help organize your Docker Images. Labels are key-value pairs and simply adds custom metadata to 
your Docker Images. ... You can use more than one labels in a Docker Image. Docker allows you to specify multiple labels in a single line.
54)What is namespace in kubernetes?:
Namespaces are a way to divide cluster resources between multiple users (via resource quota).
Namespaces help pod-to-pod communication using the same namespace. Namespaces are virtual clusters that can sit on top of the same 
physical cluster. They provide logical separation between the teams and their environments.
55)Difference between docker swarm and kubernetes?:
In Kubernetes, an application can be deployed using a combination of pods, deployments, and services (or micro-services).
Kubernetes supports multiple versions of logging and monitoring when the services are deployed within the cluster:

1.Elasticsearch/Kibana (ELK) logs within the container
2.Heapster/Grafana/ Influx for monitoring in the container
3.Sysdig cloud integration
Docker Swarm, applications can be deployed as services (or micro-services) in a Swarm cluster. YAML files can be used to 
specify multi-container. Moreover, Docker Compose can deploy the app.
Docker Swarm is supported for only monitoring with the third party applications.
Docker Swarm has an open API, it makes easier to connect with plenty of apps.
56)what is local repository ,remote repository and central repository in maven?:
Local Repository:
The repository which resides in our local machine which are cached from the remote/central repository downloads and ready for the usage. 
The folder to hold/place all the dependencies in local can be configured in the settings.xml file of the maven folder under the tag <localRepository>.

<settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0" 
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" 
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0 
          http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">
      
      <localRepository>D:/m2repo</localRepository>
</settings>
Remote Repository:
This repository as the name suggests resides in the remote server and which can be accessed by using different file 
transfer protocols like file:// or http://. Remote repository will be used for both downloading and uploading the dependencies and artifacts.

<repositories>
      <repository>
         <id>remote.repository</id>
         <url>http://download.ogrname.com/maven2/</url>
      </repository>
</repositories>
Central Repository:
This is the repository provided by maven community. This repository contains large set of commonly used/required libraries 
for any java project. Basically, internet connection is required if developers want to make use of this central repository. 
But, no configuration is required for accessing this central repository.

<repositories>
      <repository>
         <id>central.repository</id>
         <url>http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/</url>
      </repository>
</repositories>
57)What are the types of volumes in EBS?:
Amazon EBS volume types are broken into two main categories: 
SSD-backed volumes are optimized for IOPS, which are best for workloads involving frequent read/write operations with small I/O size.
HDD-backed volumes are optimized for throughput (measured in MiB/s) for large streaming workloads. Cannot include boot volumes.
Amazon EBS provides the following volume types: 
1.General Purpose SSD ( gp2 and gp3 ) 
2.Provisioned IOPS SSD ( io1 and io2 ) 
3.Throughput Optimized HDD ( st1 )
4.Cold HDD ( sc1 ) 
5.Magnetic ( standard )
1.General Purpose SSD (gp2): – general purpose, balances price and performance.
Use cases: Most workloads such as virtual desktops, dev and test environments, and low-latency interactive apps.
2.Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1): – highest-performance SSD volume for mission-critical low-latency or high-throughput 
workloads that require sustained IOPS performance, or more than 16,000 IOPS or 250 MiB/s of throughout per volume.
Use cases: Mission-critical applications, large database workloads such as MongoDB, Microsoft SQL Server, Cassandra, 
Oracle, MySQL, and PostgreSQL
3.Throughput Optimized HDD (st1): – low-cost HDD volume for frequently accessed workloads with high throughput.
Use cases: Streaming workloads, big data, data warehouses, log processing.
4.Cold HDD (sc1): – lowest cost HDD volume for less-frequently accessed workloads
Use cases: Throughput-oriented storage for large volumes of data that is infrequently accessed
58)what is docker network?:
Docker networking allows you to attach a container to as many networks as you like. You can also attach an already running container.
There are three common Docker network types – 1.bridge networks, used within a single host, 2.overlay networks, 
for multi-host communication, and 3.macvlan networks which are used to connect Docker containers directly to host network interfaces.
59)What are the three types of version control?:
Types of Version Control Systems:
1.Local Version Control Systems.
2.Centralized Version Control Systems.
3.Distributed Version Control Systems.
60)What is git rebase?: 
Rebasing is the process of moving or combining a sequence of commits to a new base commit.
Rebasing is most useful and easily visualized in the context of a feature branching workflow.
61)What is dynamic port mapping?:
Dynamic port mapping allows you to run multiple tasks over the same host using multiple random host ports (in spite of defined host port). ... 
An Application Load Balancer uses dynamic port mapping so that you can run multiple tasks from a single service on the same container instance.
62)what is docker daemon?:
The Docker daemon ( dockerd ) listens for Docker API requests and manages Docker objects such as images, containers, networks, and volumes. 
A daemon can also communicate with other daemons to manage Docker services.
63)difference between availability zone and region?:
Each Region is a separate geographic area. Availability Zones are multiple, isolated locations within each Region.
64)difference between fault tolerance and high availability?:
A fault tolerant environment has no service interruption but a significantly higher cost, 
while a highly available environment has a minimal service interruption.
Fault-tolerant technology is a capability of a computer system, electronic system or network to deliver uninterrupted service, despite 
one or more of its components failing. Fault tolerance also resolves potential service interruptions related to software or logic errors.
65)what is docker context?:

66)what is VPC endpoint?:
A VPC endpoint allows you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services without requiring an Internet gateway, NAT device, 
VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection.
67)Load balancing algorithms?:
1. Round Robin method
2. Weighted Round Robin
3. Least Connection
4. Weighted Least Connection
5. Resource Based (Adaptive)
6. Resource Based (SDN Adaptive)
7. Fixed Weighting
8. Weighted Response Time
9. Source IP Hash
10. URL Hash
68)what is gather facts in ansible?:
Ansible facts are data gathered about target nodes (host nodes to be configured) and returned back to controller nodes. 
Ansible facts are stored in JSON format and are used to make important decisions about tasks based on their statistics. 
Facts are in an ansible_facts variable, which is managed by Ansible Engine.
69)What is the architecture of ansible?:
Ansible is used to automate different networks, and it uses the simple, secure, and powerful agentless automation framework 
for IT operations and development.
Ansible is a radically simple IT automation engine that automates cloud provisioning, configuration management, application deployment, 
intra-service orchestration, and many other IT needs.
70)How do I supply variables while executing the playbook in ansible?:
It is possible to set variables at the command line using the –extra-vars (or -e) argument. Variables can be defined using 
a single quoted string (containing one or more variables) using one of the formats below. If you are passing variables from a file, 
you need a second –extra-vars flag to pass variables.

$ ansible-playbook release.yml --extra-vars "version=1.23.45 other_variable=foo"
$ ansible-playbook release.yml -e "version=1.23.45 other_variable=foo"
71)Explain about the tags in ansible?:
Ansible tags are used to run only one or some specific tasks from a large playbook instead of running the whole playbook.
Ansible runs or skips all tasks with tags that match the tags you pass at the command line. If you have added a tag at the block 
or play level, with roles , or with an import, that tag applies to every task within the block, play, role, or imported role or file.
72)How to execute failure playbook again?:
Use that --limit command and it should retry from the failed task. The --limit @/home/user/site. 
retry would not help in such a scenario, the . retry only stores the failed host and nothing more, 
so will just execute all tasks against failed hosts.
73)What is the purpose and location of ansible.cfg file?:
This is the brain and the heart of Ansible, the file that governs the behavior of all interactions performed by the control node. 
In Ansible's case that default configuration file is (ansible. cfg) located in /etc/ansible/ansible.
74)What is the difference between group_vars & host_vars directory?:
host_vars and groups_vars helps to manage host and group variables in more systematic way. Host and group variables can be stored in 
individual files relative to the inventory file. These variable files are in YAML format.
75)What is setup module used for?:
This module is automatically called by playbooks to gather useful variables about remote hosts that can be used in playbooks. 
It can also be executed directly by /usr/bin/ansible to check what variables are available to a host. Ansible provides many facts 
about the system, automatically.
76)